I am Mykhailo Hrushevsky. born in
1866 in Kholm, current-day Poland.
I am a Ukrainian academician, politician,
historian, and statesman who IS one of
the most important figures of the Ukrainian
national revival of the early 20th century.
I am often considered the country's
greatest modern historian, the leader of
the pre-revolution Ukrainian national movement,
and the head of the revolutionary parliament
My mother was from an Orthodox priest family
while my father was a highly-decorated official.
I entered Saint Volodymyr University, in
Kyiv. I always believed my family are real
patriots of Ukraine, who managed to instill
a sense of national pride in their children.
I authored the first detailed scholarly synthesis
of Ukrainian history. I claimed the ancient
Ukrainian steppe cultures from Scythia to Kyivan
Rus to the Cossacks as part of Ukrainian heritage.
I always emphasized native Ukrainian factors
rather than international ones as the causes
of various phenomena. I also stressed
the national aspect of the Ukrainian
Renaissance of the 16th and 17th centuries.
I spoke out against Polish political predominance
and Ruthenian particularism and supported a
national Ukrainian identity that would unite
both eastern and western parts of the country.
In 1917, I was elected head of the revolutionary
parliament, in Kyiv and gradually guided it
from Ukrainian national autonomy within a
democratic Russia to complete independence. I was
considered a radical democrat and a socialist.
In 1919, I emigrated, having acquired a
mandate from the Ukrainian Party of Socialist
Revolutionaries to co-ordinate the activities
of its representatives abroad. It took us years
to come back to Ukraine struggling against
Russian influence and forming the legislation.
Back in Ukraine, I concentrated on academic
work. Above all, I continued writing my
monumental History of Ukraine-Rusʹ. In 1931, after
a long campaign against me in the Soviet press,
I was exiled to Moscow. In 1934, under the
close watch of the Soviet political police,
I died during routine minor surgery in the
Caucasus, at the age of 68. My goal was to
protect the Ukrainian sense of unity and
I hope this feeling is preserved forever.